All right,
we're going to get a little bit meta.
We're going to create roles and permissions for
managing access to roles and permissions.
Before we do that, let's just make a secondary role.
Let's just call that,
Editor.
And the editor can delete an update,
query users, edit users,
and let's say, that's it.
And we'll assign that to uees,
create the role just so that we have it.
So now I'm right here.
This is me as just a regular website user.
If I go to roles,
you see I'm able to actually see them.
I'm able to edit them.
I'm able to change who they're assigned to all that.
And I shouldn't be able to do that as a regular user.
So we need to lock that down.
Well, let's open up our list, which is role.ts.
And we'll go up here
and there there's a couple of things that need to happen.
We need hard access,
as also we need to hide the UI from the user.
So say access,
right here.
So create as permissions.
I imported that from my access file
and that is, can manage roles.
I mean literally the rest are going to be the same
create, read, update, and delete,
all have access to that.
If they're all the same I believe
you can also just pass it
to access in general
because they're all the same
but I much prefer to just have it like this
so that if I do need to manage it, I can do that.
So if I give that a save now
and restart the process.
We see now
there are no roles to be found for this person
because they do not have that permission
but there still is this UI here that they're like,
"Hmm what's a role," right?
Like, I didn't even know that was the thing, right?
So we also can take it a step further
and say the UI.
And then in the UI property here,
we can say there is hide create,
which can be done like this.
It is
we can do a little function, which is args.
And then we'll just return the opposite
of permissions.canManageRoles
and pass the args here.
And then there's another one called hideDelete.
And then there's another one called isHidden.
And if you hover over top of them,
exclude this list from the admin UI
and then hides the delete button in the admin UI
note that this is not disabled deleting items
through the graphQL API only hides it.
So it's really important that you don't just
hide the buttons from them
but you first actually limit their access control.
And then you go and
hide the buttons from them.
So it makes sense to them.
They don't, they're not seeing that.
So now give this a kill restart
and now it's not even in the sidebar
I guess it's still shows the roles here, but
now if you click it,
there's no way to get to that specific UI.
So that is role-based permission.
In the next video, we'll pick it up with a few more types.